---
layout: post
title: It's all about groove
---

If there’s a groove, I’m going to dig. And not just any drumbeat and a bass line… I think a good groove (see: in the pocket) is a nearly palpable yet nearly indescribable part of all catchy music.  I should be more careful equating “catchy” and “good” music- but then again this is a blog about my opinions, so fuck off. The core elements of the groove should be able to sustain your attention for long periods of time, despite the fact that they can get repetitive. This concept of groove is related to that of a hook, but more fundamental to the progression of the song. If art is how we decorate space, music is how we decorate time, and a good groove will shepherd you along  in time by creating a common home base for a song’s spacey and melodic elements to return and refer to. I’ll have a few examples of song grooves in a later, but for now, hold on to that definition and mull it over, perhaps with your own examples instead of mine. 

I think it’s important to note that most of the music I listen to integrates this idea of groove very well into the rest of the melody/hook/lyrics/whatever-they are intertwined just as one song is one song, not a sum of parts. A lot of the emphasis and attention paid to groove has to do with my intense appreciation for bass driven music. Not in the sense of being a bass head or liking music with earth shattering low end, but music that has catchy and interesting bass lines. For me, it stems from the same fascination one might have with a good joke. The reason they are funny and interesting is because subconsciously you’re thinking “I never thought about it that way” or, more literally, “that perspective flips my currently held knowledge of the subject on its respective head.” That’s why you can ruin a punch line so easily: by hinting at or letting people figure out the joke on their own terms, you make it infinitely less “interesting” and thus less humorous. In much the same way, when I listen to the way other bass players interact with the music they make over the course of a song I feel somewhat inspired and refreshed – “I never thought about it that way” or “Wow that’s a fucking cool phrase because…”  The myriad ways James Jamerson “goes from the I chord to V chord” (Joe Dart) makes the songs he plays on interesting because the groove (and for much of that body of music, the melody) is always subtly changing in a very organic way. 

Anyway, I think that’s a good little introduction for now. Haven’t really started talking about specific music yet, and honestly I don’t feel ready to. There’s so much simmering that I really want to say and get onto paper that I can’t jump into this thing headfirst- or maybe I should, and pepper the more analytical stuff in along the course of the project. It’ll be important to actually start getting practice analyzing bodies of music on some sort of regular basis. I have lots of ideas about the different topics I could be writing about: new playlists I’m putting together, albums I’m digging now, classic albums (classic meaning to pivotal my musical acculturation), genre, artists & their histories, new vinyl acquisitions, recording techniques, and who knows what else. This is all becoming very stream of consciousness and a little wandering so I’ll end it here for now…

Look out for a post soon on the blog platform itself - Github hosting, Jekyll, and mathjax!
