---
layout: post
title: An actual start
---
#M-M-M-MARKDOWN

So hopefully with this blog I’ll be writing bi weekly about the music that I’m listening to- not quite reviewing and not quite solely admiring, but somewhere in the middle.  Posts might also include my thoughts on the industry, music accessibility, education, and really anything related to music. I used to do a lot of live sound and recording work, so I try to stay up-to-date. I don’t plan on posting any critiques or reviews of music I don’t enjoy, unless of course there is a cool story behind the album, or interesting production, or some redeeming quality to discuss at length. However, I’ve been recently trying to challenge myself to listen to more experimental compositions that I wouldn’t have enjoyed in the past, in the same way one might challenge themselves to enjoy less accessible forms of art: but more on that in later posts. I think at the core I want to write about music not necessarily for an audience, but because it’ll help me catalog my thoughts about some of the my favorite music, how it interrelates, and generally to sharpen my thinky-bits by way of articulating what, specifically, I like and don’t like about the music I can jive with. In “Auto/biographical Discourses” by Laura Marcus, she mentions the power of a properly written autobiography lies in how it can be a tool for self discovery & introspection for the author- and how this can sometimes be a scary thing (some doors are better left closed).  In a similar way I want to gain insights into what appeals to me, what I would want to put in my own music someday, and hopefully trace the progression of those tastes back to a few critical tracks or moments in my life. It’s more of a personal passion project than anything, and I tend to like talking about music anyway. An audience, if any, is just going to be the extra cherry on top. My writing style probably makes that last point a little ironic, but I think my thoughts are just naturally more didactic and preachy than I realize ;). That being said, I wouldn’t mind discussing things with people who really want to talk about things in depth, so like... send me an email if you're so inclined. 

I’ve also been wanting to mention that my mind and productivity-psychology are very heavily influenced by what I tell my closest friends. It goes a bit like this: there have been a few studies that are able to show that telling others about a project and finishing the project cause nearly identical changes in your brain chemistry – the same reaction is occurring in both situations, and the end result is that people who inform others of their Next Big Thing often don’t end up finishing them, for that very reason. It’s very similar to instant/delayed gratification. I think I’m heavily influenced by this sort of trend, and tend towards the grandiose when I’m planning personal passion projects. Perhaps this is one of them, who really knows. If you are reading this and know me, there’s a good chance I told you about the blog after a bit of a rhythm has been established, and that I think there’s a good chance the blog won’t die. Anyway, I don’t really plan to write all that much about myself, but I do think that writing is a fantastic way to sort out life’s kinks and grow as a person, so there very well could be a few posts that just aim to chat about life. Maybe I’ll sign my name something cheesy like –xoFJ or some shit like that. –Syzygy? Maybe –Giant Dolphin for the homies who go way back. 

Oh did I mention I'm into chemistry? Maybe I forgot that part.

<iframe src="https://embed.spotify.com/?uri=spotify%3Atrack%3A7b8s4Z0abQQ4x4jpct4GjR" width="300" height="380" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true"></iframe>